Cookbooks/Tools-&-Setup/WSL-Setup.md, before:

## Verify Windows Version
In order to use WSL you must have Windows 10 version 2004 (build 19041.264) or higher.
To verify the version you can go to Windows PowerShell and run the following command:
```
winver
```

## Turn on Virtual Machine and WSL on your Local Machine
Go to Control Panel → Windows Features Turn on or off → Check the following boxes there:

* Virtual Machine Platform
* Windows Subsystem for Linux

## Set the WSL2 as default
Make the WSL2 as default so all the apps will use version 2 by default. You can do that as follows:
```
Windows Powershell → wsl --set-default-version 2
```

## Install Linux Distribution (Ubuntu in this case)
Go to Microsoft Store → Search Ubuntu → Open your desired version → Click on "get" → Let the download complete → Install → Launch the distribution Set up your credentials.
Upgrade the Linux CLI as follows:
```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```
You can go to your windows filesystem by:
```bash
cd /mnt
```

**Note:** you get the registry error when you are installing the distribution from the Microsoft store, you can download the Linux kernel update package from [Manual installation steps for older versions of WSL](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-manual).

## How to Set up Docker in WSL?
1. Follow the steps above until you have the WSL working.
2. Download Install Docker Desktop from [Download Docker Desktop | Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/).
3. Now you can open your Linux distribution and start using docker commands.

Commit message:

added WSL git with SSH and 1Password guide

Cookbooks/Tools-&-Setup/WSL-Setup.md, after:

## Verify Windows Version
In order to use WSL you must have Windows 10 version 2004 (build 19041.264) or higher.
To verify the version you can go to Windows PowerShell and run the following command:
```
winver
```

## Turn on Virtual Machine and WSL on your Local Machine
Go to Control Panel → Windows Features Turn on or off → Check the following boxes there:

* Virtual Machine Platform
* Windows Subsystem for Linux

## Set the WSL2 as default
Make the WSL2 as default so all the apps will use version 2 by default. You can do that as follows:
```
Windows Powershell → wsl --set-default-version 2
```

## Install Linux Distribution (Ubuntu in this case)
Go to Microsoft Store → Search Ubuntu → Open your desired version → Click on "get" → Let the download complete → Install → Launch the distribution Set up your credentials.
Upgrade the Linux CLI as follows:
```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```
You can go to your windows filesystem by:
```bash
cd /mnt
```
**Note:** you get the registry error when you are installing the distribution from the Microsoft store, you can download the Linux kernel update package from [Manual installation steps for older versions of WSL](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-manual).

## Set up git with ssh and 1Password
It's highly recommended to use Git with SSH and manage your SSH keys using 1Password. Most distributions already have Git installed by default.
If that's not the case, you can install it by running:
```bash
sudo apt install git
```
Follow the guides below to set up your 1Password SSH keys and agent:
1. [Get started with 1Password for SSH](https://developer.1password.com/docs/ssh/get-started/)
2. [Use the 1Password SSH agent with WSL](https://developer.1password.com/docs/ssh/integrations/wsl/)

## How to Set up Docker in WSL?
1. Follow the steps above until you have the WSL working.
2. Download Install Docker Desktop from [Download Docker Desktop | Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/).
3. Now you can open your Linux distribution and start using docker commands.
