Code-Style/Python.md, before:

# Python

## Python
This series of pages outline the best Python development practices and detailed explanations on exactly how something should be done the recommended way and why the recommended method is preferred.

## The Zen of Python 🐍
The Zen of Python is the basic philosophy you should follow when writing Python code. For instance, you should always write your code as simple as possible and as readable as possible.
You can type in `import this` in a Python interactive REPL console to see the full Zen of Python poem.

```python
>>> import this
The Zen of Python, by Tim Peters

Beautiful is better than ugly.
Explicit is better than implicit.
Simple is better than complex.
Complex is better than complicated.
Flat is better than nested.
Sparse is better than dense.
Readability counts.
Special cases aren't special enough to break the rules.
Although practicality beats purity.
Errors should never pass silently.
Unless explicitly silenced.
In the face of ambiguity, refuse the temptation to guess.
There should be one-- and preferably only one --obvious way to do it.
Although that way may not be obvious at first unless you're Dutch.
Now is better than never.
Although never is often better than *right* now.
If the implementation is hard to explain, it's a bad idea.
If the implementation is easy to explain, it may be a good idea.
Namespaces are one honking great idea -- let's do more of those!
>>>
```

Commit message:

fix(writing): corrected all the wording and writing to be compliant with a good language
Signed-off-by: Felipe Rios <felipe.rios.silva@outlook.com>

Code-Style/Python.md, after:

# Python

> **TL;DR:** Follow the Zen of Python -- prioritize readability, simplicity, and explicitness. Use Black for formatting, isort for imports, Flake8 for linting, type hints on all functions, Loguru for logging, and PDM for packaging.

## Overview

This series of pages outlines best practices for Python development, with detailed explanations of recommended approaches and the reasoning behind them. See the sub-pages for specific topics:

- [Styling and Formatting (PEP 8)](Python/Styling-and-Formatting-(PEP-8).md)
- [Typing and Type Hints (PEP 484)](Python/Typing-and-Type-Hints-(PEP-484).md)
- [Printing and Logging](Python/Printing-and-Logging.md)
- [Packaging](Python/Packaging.md)
- [Package Metadata Formats](Python/Package-Metadata-Formats.md)
- [Standard Package Layout](Python/Standard-Package-Layout.md)
- [Tips and Tricks](Python/Tips-and-Tricks.md)

## The Zen of Python

The Zen of Python defines the core philosophy for writing Pythonic code. Access it anytime by running `import this` in a Python REPL:

```
Beautiful is better than ugly.
Explicit is better than implicit.
Simple is better than complex.
Complex is better than complicated.
Flat is better than nested.
Sparse is better than dense.
Readability counts.
Special cases aren't special enough to break the rules.
Although practicality beats purity.
Errors should never pass silently.
Unless explicitly silenced.
In the face of ambiguity, refuse the temptation to guess.
There should be one-- and preferably only one --obvious way to do it.
Although that way may not be obvious at first unless you're Dutch.
Now is better than never.
Although never is often better than *right* now.
If the implementation is hard to explain, it's a bad idea.
If the implementation is easy to explain, it may be a good idea.
Namespaces are one honking great idea -- let's do more of those!
```

## References

- [PEP 20 -- The Zen of Python](https://peps.python.org/pep-0020/)
- [Python Documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/)
